In this video, we're going to take a look at a couple of different ways of making sure the expiration
service waits about the 15 minutes or so before emitting that expiration complete event.
The first thing we want to do is really just kind of picture that service in isolation.
The idea here is order created comes in and then we're going to have some mechanism inside of here to
wait that 15 minutes or so and then eventually emit some event of expiration complete.
Now I keep talking about waiting 15 minutes and all that stuff, just as a very quick reminder if we
think back.
So when we actually create an order and where we assign that timer, if we go back to our order service,
take a look at routes and then new TS.
Inside of here.
You'll recall that our mechanism for actually tracking when order expires is a timestamp.
So that is the time at some point in time in the future when this order is going to expire.
So when I talk about waiting 15 minutes or something like that, it's really not so much waiting for
15 minutes, so much as it is waiting for this timestamp to go from being in the future into the past.
In other words, when it is this time indicated by this timestamp right here, that's when we want to
emit this expiration complete event.
Having said that, as we're discussing this service, I'm really just going to keep saying, oh, yeah,
we want to wait 15 minutes or so.
Let's not technically we are waiting 15 minutes inside the service.
It is really technically at some future point in time that is indicated inside of this event.
We want to emit that event of expiration complete.
So with that little disclaimer out of the way, what are the ways that we can actually implement this?
Well, the first one that we're going to take a look at, really simple, super basic, we could say
this is totally an option, but there is a big downside to it.
We could say that whenever we see this event come in, we could just use something like set time out
so we can have some set time out function.
We tell it to wait 15 minutes.
Now, that's not actually valid right there.
We cannot give a set time out a string of 15 minutes, but you get the idea.
We could provide some number of milliseconds to wait, and after that number of milliseconds, we can
have some code inside of here to publish the expiration complete event.
And this definitely is an option, but it's not super viable.
The reason that it's not a great option is that set time out stores a timer in memory.
So if our expiration service were to ever restart for any reason whatsoever, then all the timers that
we have running at that point in time are going to be lost and we're going to completely forget about
the fact that, well, we have to publish the expiration complete event in some remaining amount of
time.
So this would be super simple in nature, but a very clear downside to it.
So what's another option?
Well, the second option we have available to us.
Would be to just set up a listener for order created.
And every single time we see this event come in, we could check to see if the expires at time inside
that event is in the past.
If it is in the past, then we could emit the expiration complete event.
And if it's not in the past, if that expiration time is still at some point in time in the future,
we can just not ask the incoming message.
If we do not act this incoming event, remember acknowledge it.
That means that Nats is going to automatically re deliver this thing 5 seconds in the future.
And so we could just rely upon that constant re delivery and every single time we could just check the
expires at time.
And whenever it's in the past we can say okay time to actually act this event finally and publish our
own.
And this is also, without a doubt, a viable option.
We could definitely put something like this together, but there is a pretty big downside to this.
One way of tracking events that fail constantly inside of our application is to track the number of
times that they get re delivered.
So in other words, we might have other events that we are having trouble processing inside of our app.
And for logging purposes, we might want to track how many times they get re delivered.
And then maybe after we have tried to process them say five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten times,
we might then throw some kind of critical alert to our engineers and say, Hey, there's some event
that we just plain can't process.
And so if we are relying upon this kind of a re delivery mechanism for both logging purposes and for
some core business logic, life is going to get really confusing really quickly.
So all of this could be a viable option.
I'd say that it just doesn't quite feel right and it's going to make some things complicated down the
line.
That's option number two.
Let's go on to option number three.
Now, option number three, this would be a fantastic option.
Unfortunately, it is not supported by Nat streaming server.
So down here I've got in this diagram message broker.
So this is to say some other implementation of a event.
Plus, let's really be really precise here with our naming.
This would be not nats.
There are other event bus implementations that are going to support this kind of feature.
Let's first talk about what the feature is.
So in this approach, approach number three, we could say that whenever we receive order created will
then receive that in sight of expiration service and without any delay whatsoever.
Like the instant we receive this event, we could publish our own event of expiration complete, but
we could attach to that event.
When we publish it, we could tell our event bus to not publish this thing for another 15 minutes.
So in this case, we'd be relying upon our event bus to wait 15 minutes before actually sending out
this event to the rest of the world.
Now, unfortunately, Napster server just doesn't support this.
This idea here of some kind of delayed message is referred to as a scheduled message or a scheduled
event.
So you will see other event implementations that support this, but again, not supported by that streaming
server.
And this would be a pretty great little feature if we had ability to do this, because if we had the
ability to do this, we wouldn't even need the expiration service.
We could actually just have.
Our order service.
Itself published an event that says, Oh, hey, remind me in 15 minutes that I need to expire this
order.
So in this scenario, if we had access to this kind of feature, well, the order service could just
say, hey, remind me in 15 minutes to do this thing and we would be all set.
Good to go.
But for the fifth time now, not supported by Napster server.
So not an option.
All right.
So that's up to number three, on to option number four.
And as usual, as you can guess, this is what we're going to do inside of our application.
So inside of our exploration service, we're going to make use of a little library called Bull JS.
This is a JavaScript library that allows us to essentially set up long live timers of sorts or essentially
give ourselves notifications.
It's really a very general purpose framework for allowing us to store some amount of data, do some
processing, and possibly have some scheduled aspect to it as well.
So instead of our expiration service, we're going to use bull and we're going to tell it, remind us
in 15 minutes to do some amount of work.
We're going to pass that command into bulges.
And bulges is going to store this little reminder inside of a reddest instance.
If you're not familiar with reddest, reddest is essentially an in-memory database.
It is very commonly used for tasks exactly like this right here.
So inside of Red Bull is going to store a list of jobs or things that are scheduled to be done at some
point in time after those 15 minutes elapse.
Bulges is then going to get a little reminder from Redis that it needs to do something.
And Bull, in turn is going to turn back around to us and say, hey, 15 minutes have elapsed.
It's time for you to do whatever it is you want it to do.
And so for us, we're going to just publish an event of expiration complete.
So that's it.
That's what we're going to be using inside of our app.
So for our exploration service, really what we're going to be doing is focusing ourselves on learning
a little bit more about this library and about how to set up a copy of Redis inside of our Kubernetes
cluster as well, which will be, trust me, super easy and straightforward.
It's that's it.
That's it.
We're going to go with.
And I hope that the explanation of those other three options were handy as well.
Let's get started on this expiration service in the next video.